So welcome back, guys, in this module, we will going to create library files for Linux platform.
Until now, you had your double-dealing list library, which consisted of source files and header files.
So in this module, what we will going to learn is that we will going to create one single file and
we call that single file as a library file.
So that particular file is actually the collection of all the compiled source file, which are part
of library.
So C and C++ source files, which represent library, can be compiled to form two flavors of library
for Linux platform.
Libraries are a collection of compiled object files, so remember, libraries are nothing, but these
are just a collection of compiled object files of the corresponding source files.
So Linux, C or C plus libraries can be broadly classified into two categories Astatke libraries and
dynamic libraries.
Static libraries usually have an extension of DOT A, whereas Dynamic Libraries has an extension Dartez
or Sadaat Assoc. times for shared object.
So in this module, we will going to learn the process of creation of two types of libraries that is
static and dynamic libraries.
And we will also discuss that, how these two libraries internally work and what is the difference between
these two types of libraries?
So going forward, so let us discuss the steps regarding how to create static libraries so your library
by now should have to source file, that is JLL Dorsey and Util Dorsey.
Right.
So in order to create a static library, the first step that you need to do is to compile the source
file to create the corresponding object files so that this is see command of the compiler command to
create object files out of the source files are the following.
Right.
So when you execute these two commands on your Linux terminal, you will end up with the two object
files that is developed at all and they'll underscore you that, all right, now you have all the object
files, which actually represents the complete list library.
Now, the next step that you need to do is to bundle all the object files together in order to create
one single file, which is called library file.
So in this case, the name of the library is labial today.
So not that in C or C++, you need to follow the conventions in naming the library, the name of the
library should start with Leyb, followed by library name and followed by the extension.
So this is the conventions that you need to follow in order to create C or C++ libraries so you can
see that the name of our library follows this convention.
And since this library has an extension today, therefore we are creating a static library.
Right.
So once you have all the object files together, the come on to create a static library by bundling
all the object files together.
Is this following?
Come on.
So on your terminal, run this command and you will get the final static library file called Liberty
Island today.
So the syntax of this command is that you need to run archive command, followed by Orris is the flag
followed by the name of the library that you are creating and followed by the list of object files which
needs to be bundled together in order to create this static library.
So let me show you a quick demonstration regarding creating a static library.
You can see in the terminal I have the C file and underscore you see a file, so I will create the object
files out of the source file.
So C minus C, C minus O.
So I've created an object file.
Similarly, I will compile the underscore util dot c.
To create an object file that is under school util dot.
All right, so you can see that I have created the object files.
Right, and now I just have to run this command in order to create a static library.
So come on, there's a R R as the name of the library.
Followed by all the object files, which needs to be packaged as library.
So you can see that this come on outwards, that the library has been created so that us see.
So we have this liability file created, right, so so you can see that how easy it is to create a static
liability in C or C++.
Now let us see how to create a dynamic library.
The steps of creating dynamic library is not very different from the steps of creating static liability.
So in case of dynamic library, you again have to source file that is jealousy and will allow you to
see.
So out of these source file, definitely you will going to create an object file.
So the only difference that you are seeing here is that you need to provide an additional flag in order
to create an object files.
This additional flag is called minus SBIC here, Pakistan's SWAT position, independent code.
So once you run these commands in the terminal, you will have the object files.
Now you need to bundle all these object files together in order to create the final library, which
is libidinal dark soul here.
Also, you need to follow the same naming conventions.
Now, once you have the object file together in order to create a final dynamic library, you need to
run the following command.
That is Dixie, which is the compiler that the name of the object files, which needs to be bundled
together.
And since you are creating a dynamic library, therefore you need to specify the flag minus mindshare
and using minus or switched.
You are actually specifying the name of the dynamic library that you want to create.
So now let me show you a quick demonstration regarding how to create a dynamic library.
So in the same directory, let me delete all the object files, which we created earlier.
And let me delete the static library, which we had created.
Now we were going to create the dynamic library from the source file.
So the command is G, C, C, minus C, minus FPI, C, D, C minus or JLL dot all.
Right.
So the object file that is delayed or is created similarly, if you will create another object file.
Diesel, you to see minus all the land you turned out all.
So we have created what the object finds that is not OK and underscore util dot o.
Now, I will run the third command in order to create a final shared library, so that is DCC, the
little DOT or.
Jalal util or.
Miners, shared miners all and live together taught us all so you can see that the shared liability
file has been created.
So you can see that it is really very easy to create a shared liability or a strict liability for C
or C++.
So one thing to note here is that you need to specify a special flag goldminers, FDIC in order to create
object files, which needs to be bundled together to create a final shared library.
This is a special flag is actually called position independent code.
And the details of this flag is actually out of the context of discourse.
So just remember the name of this flag and there is no need to go into the inner technicalities behind
this flag because you need to know how assembly code works in order to understand how does this flag
works.